# Dynamical buffers for biological motifs
Code for the project "Buffering variability in cell regulation motifs next to criticality".  
Author: Daniele Proverbio, LCSB, 2022

## Analytical results
Analytical results are in the Mathematica notebooks, ordered by topic.  
Calculation and characterization of the bifurcation diagram and its focal width is performed in ``equilibria_coop.m''. 

## Simulations
Computer simulations of the biological system are performed by sequential run of Matlab files (Simulate -> Analysis -> Plotting). 
Note that, due to heavy files generated by multiple simulations, only the generating code "simulate.m" is provided, without results; they can be re-obtained by running the code for each n.  

Figures are mostly generated by "plotting.m". However, a few more are generated by intermediate files to decrease the computaitional cost associated to savings. Final manuscrpt figures are collated using Inkscape.


## Notes
Due to limited computing resources, neither Matlab file is optimised to run sequentially. Hence, changing parameter should be performed manually at each highlighted line of the code, for the desired runs. Results are then saved and analysed later.

## Requirements
The code was developed using Matlab 2021b and Wolfram Mathematica 12: it is recommended to use these or subsequent versions.

## Use and Acknowledge
The code is free to be used and modified.

In case of use, please cite the project as:
* Proverbio, D., Montanari, A.N., Skupin, A. and Gonçalves, J. "Mechanisms to buffer variability in cell regulation motifs next to criticality" [submitted]
